== Create Project

Create a new project in Xcode, using SwiftUI and Swift.

== Add Dependency

Then add Stohm Native as a Swift package dependency in the project settings, by
pointing Xcode to `https://github.com/StrohmNative/strohm-native`.

== Setup Strohm Native

Now open the Swift file containing your `App` instance, `YawnApp` in this
example. It is the file that contains the `@main` annotation. Modify it like this:

```swift
import SwiftUI
import StrohmNative // <1>

@main
struct YawnApp: App {
    let strohmNative = StrohmNative.default // <2>

    var body: some Scene {
        WindowGroup {
            ContentView()
        }
    }
}
```
<1> Import Strohm Native
<2> Add a reference to `StrohmNative.default`

== Allow Local Networking

Just like on Android, the app needs to be able to use local networking during
development. In your app's info properties, add the section "App Transport
Security Settings", and inside of it the setting "Allows Local Networking". Set
the value to `YES`.

image::info_plist.png[alt="Info property list"]

Note that you can limit this to your Debug configuration if desired, by setting
the value here to a custom variable, e.g. `$(ALLOW_LOCAL_NETWORKING)`. In your
build settings you can then set the value of that variable to `YES` and `NO`
depending on the build configuration.

== Add Compiled JavaScript

In order for Xcode to include the compiled JavaScript in your project, you need
to add it manually. Just drag-and-drop the file `target/main.js` into your
project and make sure the checkbox indicating the file needs to be included in
the target is checked. Also, don't allow Xcode to copy the file, just add a
reference.

== Running on Simulator

You can now run your app on a simulator. Just like on Android, shadow-cljs will
report to the JavaScript console that it is ready. Unfortunately, you cannot see
this as you can only open the console (using Safari's develop menu) _after_ this
line has been logged, so it has been lost. Rest assured though: when you don't
see any errors in Xcode's debug area, everything should be fine.

In shadow-cljs' [Inspect Stream](http://localhost:9630/inspect) you should now
see the text "Hello world!" that was tapped in the clojure code.

== Running on Device

When running on device, a bit more setup is needed, because your app needs to
know the hostname of your development machine, so that it can connect to
shadow-cljs. The following simple "Run Script Phase" takes care of that:

```bash
hostname -s > ${CODESIGNING_FOLDER_PATH}/devhost.txt
```

image::devhost.png[alt="Dev host run script phase"]

This simply captures your IP address in a file, which is then used during
development to connect to that shadow-cljs running on that IP address.
